Top story:
------------------------------------
    Title:
        Greece agrees Bailout
    Body:
        "We fought a tough battle. We face difficult decisions."

European Summit Chair Donald Tusk announced Monday morning local time that Eurozone leaders meeting in Brussels had agreed upon a Greek bailout deal and that there would be no ‘Grexit’ for the financially troubled country.

The deal included financial support and ‘serious reforms,’ EU President Donald Tusk said. French President Francois Hollande tweeted out that, “Europe had won.”

“We fought a tough battle. We face difficult decisions,” Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras told reporters at a press conference, according to Reuters. He also said that Greece had secured debt restructuring and a 35 billion euro growth package.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel said that Greece will receive some relief, potentially in the form of a ‘longer grace period,’ but that the financially troubled country will not receive a cut in the total level of its debt. Greece will also need continued help from the IMF. “Greece will ask, after the current IMF program expires in spring 2016, for further participation of the IMF,” Merkel told reporters.

Hollande told reporters the Greek parliament will have to convene in the next few hours to vote the new reforms in, the Associated Press says.

According to the AP, a meeting between Merkel, Hollande, Tusk and Tsipras served as a turning point in the negotiations. After European leaders threatened to kick Greece out of the Eurozone, Tsipras was apparently more willing to accept difficult reforms.

Other European leaders confirmed on Twitter that an agreement had been reached.

    Excerpt:
            Greece had bowed to nearly all the demands of its creditor and taken on committments that would be difficult for the Greek government to fulfill without loosing the trust of its electorate

    feature_image(link): core/static/snippets/article_images/greece_bailout.jpg

    thumbnail_image(link): none

------------------------------------


Non-top stories:
------------------------------------
    Title:
        Mexican President Shamed by Escape of Cartel Boss
    Body:
        Capturing "Chapo" Guzmán was President Peña Nieto's great success; letting him escape is his great failure

In February 2014, when Mexican marines captured the world’s most wanted gangster Joaquín “El Chapo” Guzmán, a proud President Enrique Peña Nieto said the power of drug traffickers was being destroyed. Two previous Mexican Presidents had failed to nab Guzmán during 13 years on the run. But Peña Nieto and his Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, appeared to be better at busting these mysterious kingpins. In one interview, journalist Leon Krauze of Univision asked the President if Guzmán could ever escape from prison again as he had done back in 2001. Peña Nieto raised his hands in an incredulous gesture. “That would be more than unfortunate. It would be truly unforgivable,” Peña Nieto said. “The government will take the measures to assure that what happened years ago is not repeated.”

This Saturday, the unforgivable happened. Peña Nieto got the message as he flew to France with his Cabinet members. The 60-year-old Guzmán had fled Mexico’s highest-security prison, the Altiplano. And he had done it in spectacular fashion, going out in a tunnel that stretched 1.5 km (a mile) and had lights, air vents and a motorcycle that moved on rails. The tunnel went from a cellblock shower to a building site in a residential neighborhood, some 90 km (56 miles) from the Mexican capital.

By Sunday, the jailbreak had become a global news story, totally overshadowing Peña Nieto’s trip to France to sign trade accords. Speaking from the Mexican embassy in Paris, the President told reporters that he was ordering all forces to get Guzmán back behind bars. Soldiers searched for the kingpin from upscale Mexico City neighborhoods to the southern border with Guatemala. “This represents, without a doubt, an affront to the Mexican state,” Peña Nieto said. “But I also trust that the institutions of the Mexican state have the strength and determination to recapture this criminal.”

This latest chapter in Guzmán’s turbulent life hits the Mexican President at an already difficult time. Over the past year, Peña Nieto has been troubled by the disappearance of 43 students at the hands of cartel gunmen and corrupt police, alleged massacres by soldiers and accusations of conflicts of interest over a $7 million mansion in the name of the First Lady. His approval rating has hovered around 40%, the worst for a Mexican President in two decades. The capture of Guzmán was at least one success story. Now the kingpin has become a headache for Peña Nieto as he was for the past two Presidents.

“I was flabbergasted that there wasn’t more care of Chapo Guzmán in the prison,” says Alejandro Hope, a security analyst and former member of the federal intelligence agency. “Peña Nieto seriously underestimated Chapo. But this also shows a lot of institutional weakness. To make this escape, Chapo and his men would need plans of the prison. Where would they get those?” On Sunday, Mexican federal prosecutors took 30 prison officials in for questioning, including the director.

The jailbreak also pulls pressure from the U.S. onto Peña Nieto. Numerous U.S. courts have indicted Guzmán for trafficking cocaine, heroin, marijuana and crystal meth to American users, and the U.S. State Department put a $5 million reward on his head. Agents from the Drug Enforcement Administration tapped phones that helped the Mexican marines capture Guzmán in 2014 in a condo in the seaside resort of Mazatlán. Former DEA Administrator Peter Bensinger said he was shocked by the escape and that Guzmán “ought to have been housed in an American prison.” The U.S. had filed for the extradition of Guzmán, but Mexican judges had ruled that he should first serve time for his crimes south of the border.

Opposition Mexican politicians also used the escape as a stick to whack the President. Andrés Manuel López Obrador, an outspoken leftist who came second in the past two presidential elections, called for Peña Nieto to return immediately from France to deal with the issue. “This is a spectacular escape that will have many repercussions not only in our country but in the world,” López Obrador said in a video message. “Our country should not be a laughing stock for anybody.” López Obrador has said he aims to defeat the PRI in the next presidential election in 2018.

Hailing from a ramshackle village in the Sierra Madre mountains, Guzmán’s nickname means Shorty as he stands at 5 ft. 6 in. Despite his stature, he rose to a larger-than-life size in the drug-trafficking world, taking over the Sinaloa Cartel, the oldest and biggest network of smugglers in Mexico. He was first captured in 1993 but escaped prison in 2001, allegedly by bribing guards. On the run, he took over new turf and made it onto the Forbes billionaire list. While bringing in piles of dollars, Sinaloa Cartel gunmen also left mountains of corpses, especially in border towns such as Tijuana and Ciudad Juarez.

Despite the terror that Guzmán unleashed, some in the poor towns where he grew up see him as a kind of social bandit, bringing more with his drug money than Mexico’s businessmen or politicians offer them. Dozens of so-called drug ballads celebrate his exploits. Following his latest escape, messages on social media even called for people to go to mass in Sinaloan state capital Culiacán and give thanks to God for the gangster’s freedom. Outside the cathedral, some residents told reporters of their support for the kingpin. “I am very happy,” Maria de los Angeles Murillo told a crowd of journalists. “Because if Chapo Guzmán escapes, he will take away hunger from many people.”

    Excerpt:
            In 2014 when cartel leader Joaquín “El Chapo” Guzmán was recaptured, President President Peña Nieto's said if he were to escape, "That woudl be more than unforgivable. It would be truly unforgivable." On Sunday, the unforgivable happened.

    feature_image(link): none

    thumbnail_image(link): core/static/snippets/article_images/el_chapo_escapes.jpg

------------------------------------
    Title:
        The Smithsonian Won’t Take Down Bill Cosby’s Art Collection
    Body:
        "It's not about the life and career of Bill Cosby. It's about the artists"

(WASHINGTON) — Over the past seven months, as sexual misconduct allegations against Bill Cosby mounted, a top Smithsonian official met privately with museum directors across the sprawling complex on the National Mall to decide what to do about an exhibit showcasing Cosby’s private art collection.

While many companies and universities were distancing themselves from the comedian, Smithsonian officials ultimately concluded the exhibit should continue.

“First and fundamentally, this is an art exhibit,” Richard Kurin, the Smithsonian’s undersecretary for art, history and culture told The Associated Press. “So it’s not about the life and career of Bill Cosby. It’s about the artists.”

About a third of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African Art’s 50th anniversary exhibition came from Bill and Camille Cosby’s extensive African-American art collection, and two-thirds came from the museum’s own collection.

Most of the Cosby collection had never before been seen by the public. It includes paintings by one-time slaves, pieces commissioned for the Cosbys, a piece by Cosby’s daughter and quilts made in tribute to Cosby and his slain son, Ennis. The exhibit also includes images of Cosby and quotations from him.

Even without the assault allegations, the exhibit raised concerns. Some critics frown on showcasing a private collection in a prominent museum because it can enhance the artwork’s market value. Also, Camille Cosby sits on the museum’s board and initiated the loan, which raises questions about conflicts of interest.

Now the Smithsonian has revealed to The Associated Press that the Cosbys also funded the exhibition with a $716,000 gift, which virtually covers the entire cost. Museum industry guidelines call for museums to make public the source of funding when an art lender funds an exhibit. The Cosbys’ financial donation was not disclosed in press materials issued by the Smithsonian to publicize the exhibit, nor mentioned on the museum’s website. The exhibit opened in November. The Smithsonian said the information was available to anyone who specifically requested it.

Noah Kupferman, an art market expert at Shapiro Auctions who has taught about the economics of fine art, said such financial arrangements are not unprecedented, but museums must be transparent about them.

“It just raises a little eyebrow that a trustee of a museum is lending (her) own collection, funding part of the exhibition and the exhibition is highlighting works … by less well-known artists whose work is considered by some to be undervalued,” he said. “Repositioning these artists’ works as suddenly important could have significant positive effect on their economic value.”

The exhibit has drawn 150,000 visitors so far, according to the Smithsonian.

A promotion for the exhibit is prominently displayed on Cosby’s website even as his reputation has collapsed in recent months amid accusations of sexual misconduct by more than two dozen women. Many of the woman alleged that he drugged and raped them.

Cosby, who turns 78 on Sunday, has never been charged with a crime. He has denied some accusations, while declining to comment or respond to others.

Court documents obtained by The Associated Press revealed Cosby admitted under oath that he obtained quaaludes to give to women with whom he wanted to have sex.

In response to the admission, Walt Disney World removed a statue of Cosby. Bounce TV and Centric networks stopped re-running “The Cosby Show,” and some civil rights leaders called for Cosby’s star to be removed from the Hollywood Walk of Fame. A sexual assault awareness group has petitioned the White House to revoke Cosby’s Presidential Medal of Freedom.

Some art critics have called for the Smithsonian to stop showcasing Cosby’s art collection. The museum director, Johnnetta Cole, declined to discuss the exhibit.

Cole, who is also the president of the Association of Art Museum Directors, is close with the Cosbys. At a preview for the exhibition, the Cosbys talked warmly of Cole and recalled how Camille Cosby wrote a $20 million check to Spelman College when Cole was president of the Atlanta school. In December, Spelman suspended its program funded by the Cosbys.

The Smithsonian defended the exhibit on its artistic merits.

“We certainly don’t condone his behavior,” Kurin said. “We’re just as deeply disturbed and disappointed as I think everybody else. But it’s not about Mr. Cosby. This is an art exhibit.”

The Smithsonian is sensitive about changing exhibits.

In the past, it has removed some controversial pieces of exhibits under pressure, but “we’ve never taken an exhibit down,” said Kurin, who has worked at the museum complex for decades.

In 2010, the Smithsonian was accused of censorship when it removed a video from the National Portrait Gallery exhibit about how sexual orientation and gender identity have shaped American art after complaints from a Catholic group and members of Congress.

An outside review concluded that unless there is an error, changes should not be made to an exhibit once it’s opened without a full consultation with curators, museum directors and the Smithsonian’s governing board.

For many museum experts and scholars, removing the Cosby exhibit would set a dangerous precedent.

“You’d be sort of stomping all over the curatorial integrity of what you’ve put up,” said Jack Rasmussen, director of the American University Museum. “I think if museums had to investigate the morals of every lender, that would be kind of a new and very difficult situation. Really, it’s about the art.”

Museums have displayed privately held art collections for decades because they can complement a museum’s own collection, said Martha Morris, assistant director of museum studies at George Washington University.

“The only thing that could possibly be a criticism is that once a private collection is on display in an art museum … it begins to add to its status,” Morris said. “That could potentially add to its value if the collector wanted to sell something, for example, or even give it away to a nonprofit for a tax benefit.”

But an art loan could also lead to a donation of artwork to a museum, Morris said.

Smithsonian lawyers reviewed the Cosby loan and determined any increase in the artworks’ value was a non-issue, in part because the Cosbys did not intend to sell the art, Kurin said.

    Excerpt:
        As sexual misconduct allegations against Bill Cosby mounted, a top Smithsonian official met privately with museum directors across the sprawling complex on the National Mall to decide what to do about an exhibit showcasing Cosby’s private art collection
misconduct allegations against Bill Cosby mounted, a top Smithsonian official met privately with museum directors across the sprawling complex

    feature_image(link): none

    thumbnail_image(link): core/static/snippets/article_images/bill_cosby.jpg
------------------------------------